README.md, before:

vertigo
=======

Currently under not-so-heavy development!

Vertigo aims to be portable and easy to customize blog publishing platform. It endorces easy frontend customization, letting the blog owner decide what tools to use. That's why Vertigo ships without any frontend CSS or JavaScript frameworks, so you can start from ground-zero just from the start.

Once more stable, Vertigo is supposed to be available in simple executable file for platforms supported by Go. Any unnecessary 3rd party packages are subject to be removed to further increase easy portability.

Vertigo is developed with frontend JavaScript frameworks in mind, although Vertigo doesn't itself ship with one. All actions which can be done on the site can also done with the JSON API. Even though Vertigo is programmed API-first, it does not itself rely on AJAX calls, but makes the corresponding calls server side. This makes it possible to ship Vertigo nearly JavaScript-free (the only page using JavaScript is the text editor), letting the developer decide what frontend tools to use.

On the backend the server makes a heavy use of [Martini](http://martini.codegangsta.io/), which makes programming web services in Go bit easier. Database of choice is [RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/), which is forked version of MySQL. It serves data in JSON, but the query language comes with joins and plenty of other functionality not usually met with NoSQL databases. Unfortunately, there are very few SaaS products which provide RethinkDB, so you will most likely need to run one yourself. RethinkDB is the only part of the program which cannot be shipped in the executable.

##Demo

See [my personal website](http://www.juusohaavisto.com/)

##Install instructions

1. [Install RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/)
2. Install Go (I recommend using [gvm](https://github.com/moovweb/gvm))
3. `go get github.com/tools/godep`
4. `git clone github.com/9uuso/vertigo`
5. Fill out mail settings on users.go `SendRecoverMail` function.
6. `cd vertigo && rethinkdb && godep go build && ./vertigo RDB_HOST="localhost" RDB_PORT="28015" PORT="80"`

##Screenshots

![](http://i.imgur.com/EGlBhjP.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/0AfvQnW.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/AeC9xml.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/rDlM9IX.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/EwFcRfq.png)

##What works

Since there is so much to do, I'd rather list some things that are currently working:

- Create and read users
- Create, read, update and delete posts
- Session control
- Password protected user page with CRUD options for each post
- Basic homepage which lists all posts from all users
- JSON API
- Produce HTML5 compliant code with text editor (divitism, but I've decided to not battle against contenteditable)
- Auto-saving of posts to LocalStorage
- Search
- RSS and Atom feeds
- Password recovery with (forced :new_moon_with_face:) Mailgun integration

##License

MIT

Commit message:

update install instructions to run rethinkdb and vertigo in separate daemons

README.md, after:

vertigo
=======

Currently under not-so-heavy development!

Vertigo aims to be portable and easy to customize blog publishing platform. It endorces easy frontend customization, letting the blog owner decide what tools to use. That's why Vertigo ships without any frontend CSS or JavaScript frameworks, so you can start from ground-zero just from the start.

Once more stable, Vertigo is supposed to be available in simple executable file for platforms supported by Go. Any unnecessary 3rd party packages are subject to be removed to further increase easy portability.

Vertigo is developed with frontend JavaScript frameworks in mind, although Vertigo doesn't itself ship with one. All actions which can be done on the site can also done with the JSON API. Even though Vertigo is programmed API-first, it does not itself rely on AJAX calls, but makes the corresponding calls server side. This makes it possible to ship Vertigo nearly JavaScript-free (the only page using JavaScript is the text editor), letting the developer decide what frontend tools to use.

On the backend the server makes a heavy use of [Martini](http://martini.codegangsta.io/), which makes programming web services in Go bit easier. Database of choice is [RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/), which is forked version of MySQL. It serves data in JSON, but the query language comes with joins and plenty of other functionality not usually met with NoSQL databases. Unfortunately, there are very few SaaS products which provide RethinkDB, so you will most likely need to run one yourself. RethinkDB is the only part of the program which cannot be shipped in the executable.

##Demo

See [my personal website](http://www.juusohaavisto.com/)

##Install instructions

1. [Install RethinkDB](http://rethinkdb.com/docs/install/)
2. Install Go (I recommend using [gvm](https://github.com/moovweb/gvm))
3. `go get github.com/tools/godep`
4. `git clone github.com/9uuso/vertigo`
5. Fill out mail settings on users.go `SendRecoverMail` function.
6. Daemonize `rethinkdb`
7. `cd vertigo && godep go build` and then daemonize Vertigo `./vertigo RDB_HOST="localhost" RDB_PORT="28015" PORT="80"`

One way of daemonizing the commands is to use the `upstart` scripts in `/install`, but that requires you are running Ubuntu. Otherwise I recommend looking into the matter by your own.

##Screenshots

![](http://i.imgur.com/EGlBhjP.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/0AfvQnW.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/AeC9xml.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/rDlM9IX.png)
![](http://i.imgur.com/EwFcRfq.png)

##What works

Since there is so much to do, I'd rather list some things that are currently working:

- Create and read users
- Create, read, update and delete posts
- Session control
- Password protected user page with CRUD options for each post
- Basic homepage which lists all posts from all users
- JSON API
- Produce HTML5 compliant code with text editor (divitism, but I've decided to not battle against contenteditable)
- Auto-saving of posts to LocalStorage
- Search
- RSS and Atom feeds
- Password recovery with (forced :new_moon_with_face:) Mailgun integration

##License

MIT
